Inserting an element into our tree when it has no order is relatively easy.
We'll just tuck our node onto another node.
Maybe it's a leaf or maybe it's a parent with only one child.
We only need to make sure that we're obeying the two children rule.
We're given the root at the beginning and we'll need to
keep moving down the tree until we find an open spot.
How long will it take to find an open spot?
The worst case is that we travel down the longest path until we find the farthest leaf.
In that case, we'll travel through the number of nodes equal to the height of the tree.
But what is the height of a binary tree?
Like we did with our sorting algorithms,
let's look at some examples and reason through it.
Here are two different trees.
We can call these perfect trees,
since every node except the leaves on the last level has two children.
It looks like this tree with three nodes has two levels,
and this one has seven nodes and one, two, three levels.
As the tree grows bigger,
each new level has the capacity to hold a number of nodes equivalent to a power of two,
mull over that first a second.
Each node can have two children,
so each new level can have twice as many nodes as the one before it.
Since we've gone back to talking about powers of two,
your mind should jump to login.
Does that apply here? Let's take a look.
The number of levels increases near a power of two,
and now we have a good visualization to understand why.
At every level, we're adding roughly twice as many elements.
Every time we need to add a new level or in a binary search divider array and other term,
it's because we're giving ourselves the space to allow for about twice as many elements.
Remember that we're adding a power of two at each level,
so when we count up the nodes overall,
it won't be exactly a power of two.
Having three levels doesn't mean an overall node count of eight,
but it does mean that the fourth level itself will have eight elements in it.